# Sentiment-Analysis-using-NLTK
###Sentiment Analysis:
  Sentiment Analysis is a utilization instance of Natural Language             Processing (NLP) and goes under the class of message order. To lay it out    plainly, Sentiment Analysis includes grouping a message into different       sentiments, like positive or negative, Cheerful, Miserable or Impartial,     and so on. In this way, a definitive objective of sentiment analysis is to   unravel the hidden state of mind, feeling, or sentiment of a message. This   is otherwise called Opinion Mining.


## 1. VADER= Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoner
### Vader builds upon widely-known text analysis libraries:
1. LIWC: Looks after the poplarity: Is a word positive or negative?
   Positive emotion= 406 words
   Negative emotion= 499 words
3. ANEW: Looks after the intensity: How positive or how negative a words    is? Score from 1-->9

### VADER has a special capability of recognizing emojis and acronyms by taking in about 7520 score entries from humans about the aforesaid characters.

### VADER also measures the score by taking in punctuation into account. For example, adding an '!' mark increases the intensity of a sentence.
VADER has the advantage of assessing the sentiment of any given text without the need for previous training as we might have to for Machine Learning models.

The result generated by VADER is a dictionary of 4 keys neg, neu, pos and compound:
  -neg, neu, and pos meaning negative, neutral, and positive               respectively. Their sum should be equal to 1 or close to it with float   operation.
  -compound corresponds to the sum of the valence score of each word in    the lexicon and determines the degree of the sentiment rather than the   actual value as opposed to the previous ones. Its value is between -1    (most extreme negative sentiment) and +1 (most extreme positive          sentiment).

##VADER sentiment scoring:
  We will usethe NLTK's SentimentIntensityAnalyzer to get the              neg/neu/pos scores of the text. This uses BagofWords(BoW) approach:      stop words are removed, each word is scored and combined to a total      score.

Dataset Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QADsPeFo7bp0I6pX2OpvY4reVEZVV2nd/view?usp=drive_link
